Throughput Documentation Update (#6611)
Particular/docs.particular.net: servicepulse/usage-config.md

---
title: Usage Setup
summary: Viewing endpoint usage summary and generating a usage report
component: ServicePulse
reviewed: 2024-05-08
related:
  - nservicebus/usage
---

> Specific settings for collecting usage data to generate a usage report.

Author: Nothing on this page now about why they may not be seeing this page if they are using an older version.
We need the note on here.

---
title: Usage Setup
summary: Viewing endpoint usage summary and generating a usage report
component: ServicePulse
reviewed: 2024-05-08
related:
  - nservicebus/usage
---

Specific settings for collecting usage data to generate a usage report.

> [!NOTE]
> The usage data collection functionality requires ServicePulse version 1.39 or later, and ServiceControl version 5.3 or later.

## Connection setup

> In most scenarios existing ServiceControl Error instance connection settings will be used to establish a connection to the broker.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In most scenarios existing ServiceControl error instance connection settings will be used to establish a connection to the broker.
```

![usage-setup-connections](images/usage-setup-connection.png "width=600")

If there is a connection problem, specific usage settings can be provided via the Usage Setup tab under Configuration.

Look at the [Diagnostics](#diagnostics) tab to diagnose connection issues.

### Azure Service Bus

#### Settings

The follow settings are available to setup a connection to Azure Service Bus:

- LicenseComponent/ASB/ServiceBusName
- LicenseComponent/ASB/ClientId
- LicenseComponent/ASB/ClientSecret
- LicenseComponent/ASB/TenantId
- LicenseComponent/ASB/SubscriptionId
- LicenseComponent/ASB/ManagementUrl

> Refer to the [usage reporting](/servicecontrol/creating-config-file.md#usage-reporting) section of the ServiceControl config file for an explanation of the Azure Service Bus specific settings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Refer to the [usage reporting](/servicecontrol/creating-config-file.md#usage-reporting) section of the ServiceControl config file for an explanation of the Azure Service Bus-specific settings.
```

#### Minimum Permissions

```json
{
    "properties": {
        "roleName": "myrolename",
        "description": "",
        "assignableScopes": [
            "/subscriptions/xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx"
        ],
        "permissions": [
            {
                "actions": [
                    "Microsoft.ServiceBus/namespaces/read",
                    "Microsoft.ServiceBus/namespaces/providers/Microsoft.Insights/metricDefinitions/read",
                    "Microsoft.ServiceBus/namespaces/queues/read",
                    "Microsoft.Resources/subscriptions/resources/read"
                ],
                "notActions": [],
                "dataActions": [],
                "notDataActions": []
            }
        ]
    }
}
```

### Amazon SQS

#### Settings

The follow settings are available to setup a connection to Amazon SQS:

- LicenseComponent/AmazonSQS/AccessKey
- LicenseComponent/AmazonSQS/SecretKey
- LicenseComponent/AmazonSQS/Profile
- LicenseComponent/AmazonSQS/Region
- LicenseComponent/AmazonSQS/Prefix

> Refer to the [usage reporting](/servicecontrol/creating-config-file.md#usage-reporting) section of the ServiceControl config file for an explanation of the Amazon SQS specific settings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Refer to the [usage reporting](/servicecontrol/creating-config-file.md#usage-reporting) section of the ServiceControl config file for an explanation of the Amazon SQS-specific settings.
```

#### Minimum Permissions

```json
{
    "Version": "2012-10-17",
    "Statement": [
        {
            "Sid": "VisualEditor0",
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Action": "cloudwatch:GetMetricStatistics",
            "Resource": "*"
        },
        {
            "Sid": "VisualEditor1",
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Action": "sqs:ListQueues",
            "Resource": "*"
        }
    ]
}
```

### SQLServer

#### Settings

The follow settings are available to setup a connection to SqlServer:

- LicenseComponent/SqlServer/ConnectionString
- LicenseComponent/SqlServer/AdditionalCatalogs

> Refer to the [usage reporting](/servicecontrol/creating-config-file.md#usage-reporting) section of the ServiceControl config file for an explanation of the SqlServer specific settings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Refer to the [usage reporting](/servicecontrol/creating-config-file.md#usage-reporting) section of the ServiceControl config file for an explanation of the SQL Server-specific settings.
```

#### Minimum Permissions

User with rights to query [INFORMATION_SCHEMA].[COLUMNS] table.

### RabbitMQ

#### Settings

The follow settings are available to setup a connection to RabbitMQ:

- LicenseComponent/RabbitMQ/ApiUrl
- LicenseComponent/RabbitMQ/UserName
- LicenseComponent/RabbitMQ/Password

> Refer to the [usage reporting](/servicecontrol/creating-config-file.md#usage-reporting) section of the ServiceControl config file for an explanation of the RabbitMQ specific settings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Refer to the [usage reporting](/servicecontrol/creating-config-file.md#usage-reporting) section of the ServiceControl config file for an explanation of the RabbitMQ-specific settings.
```

> #### Minimum Permissions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Minimum permissions
```

User with monitoring tag and read permission.

### MSMQ & Azure Storage Queues

> MSMQ and Azure Storage Queues do not support querying of metrics. To be able to report on usage in these systems, [Audit](./../servicecontrol/audit-instances) and/or [Monitoring](./../monitoring) need to be enabled on all NServiceBus endpoints.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
MSMQ and Azure Storage Queues do not support querying of metrics. To report on usage in these systems, the [Audit](./../servicecontrol/audit-instances) and/or [Monitoring](./../monitoring) features must be enabled on all NServiceBus endpoints.
```

Configure [auditing](./../nservicebus/operations/auditing.md) on all NServiceBus endpoints.

Configure [monitoring](./../monitoring/metrics) on all NServiceBus endpoints.

## Diagnostics

> The Diagnostics tab helps to diagnose any connection issues to the broker, as well as the Audit and Monitoring instances.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Diagnostics tab helps to diagnose any connection issues to the broker, as well as the audit and monitoring instances.
```

![usage-setup-diagnostics](images/usage-setup-diagnostics.png "width=600")

After making any setting changes, press the `Refresh Connection Test` button to see if the problem is resolved.
If unable to fix the issue, open a [non-critical support case](https://particular.net/support) and include the diagnostic output.

> ## Report Masks

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Report masks
```

Information that is considered sensitive can be obfuscated in the usage report.

> All words to be retracted can be specified in the Masks tab - one word per line.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All words to be redacted can be specified in the Masks tab. Specify one word per line.
```

Specific settings for collecting usage data to generate a usage report.

> [!NOTE]
> The usage data collection functionality requires ServicePulse version 1.39 or later, and ServiceControl version 5.3 or later.

> 

Author: @johnsimons why are you removing this? We need to tell customers about this.
